1.

It’s not so much that I’ve lost myself

It’s more that I’ve lost my eyes
my nose
my finger
tips

I’m mute and blind.
Silent to my own soul.

Lost whole limbs to a grayness with no shape
yet all shapes. All shapes I have reached for.

Shaped by fear.
Unshaped by fear.

Unknown to my own eyes.

Is this not too the place of formlessness?
asks my better self.

No... This is much more simple. Dead simple.

2.

There is no one to hold the whip. No one to push or prod.

When they do so, it is I who moves their hands,
a puppet master.

I spend my power so poorly, so poorly.
Controlled and uncontrollable.
Raging. Hating. Hurting.
Victimized. Neglected. Punched down. Unshaped.

But it is my hand upon the book of the dead.

It is my voice that chants my unshaping.


3.

When I am gone, how will I mourn it?

What will be left of me to mourn?

What is left now?


4.

The phoenix dies in a fire and is reshaped into itself by its death.

But I have been burning for longer than my own awareness of myself has lived.
I have been shaped by these fires.
When the fire leaves, nothing is left.
Ashes blown to the wind.

Grayness, and alien life. Not me anymore.

Only an animal yearning for life has kept it going.

When I am dead, my horrors may die.
When I am dead, my history may leave me.
When I am dead, my body will shape and unshape me.

When I am dead, may I have the chance to stop storytelling a shade of myself into being.

When I am dead, may all that has been lying, laying dormant, stand.

May it yet live.

5.

I am an animated husk.

What speaks is a small ember burning on
yesterday’s life-force.

What I have been,
what I have best known as my true self,
has been torn away by sheer grayness.
I swear I can find it within me,
of course it must yet live.
How can it not?
How can I be here, when my very essence is gone?

6.

When I am gone, why pretend anymore?
Why smile and yearn for acceptance?
What will be left to give or sacrifice?

I’ve reshaped myself into someone else.
Maybe she will have her own kind of life.
Out of pain, shame, and rootlessness,
may she grow among my ruins,
not knowing how she got there.
Or why she suffers.

What will she have to give or sacrifice?

7.

My soul is going.

While it lives its last breaths, I speak…
I’ve lost.

I was never strong. I could never withstand.
But I had to pretend to everyone and my own self that I could.
It was my job.

I’ve never known what the next day would bring.
I’ve never known how I would pass through any difficulty.
I’ve never known how to live through any of it except to wait in panic until it was over.

And whenever I was come to the waters of life,
that I could drink from and live again,
I did not…

My throat was always constricted by shame, pain, and horror.

Now it is the best of me that pays the price.

8.

What will she be like, looking out these eyes like windows, a different soul?

I am, have been, mute inside her.
Silent. Silenced.

Lady, leave me to my pyre and my gods.
Leave me to my wind and rain.
Let the grasslands and the silence keep me.

I will be without pain. I will be without anything.

You and I are truest of strangers.
I shield you from me.. From the ruins you inhabit.

The bed you sleep in, child, I built it. With my heart and my rootlessness, I built it.
But child, it is merely that you were born here.

Where you go now, may I never know.


~ Nov 2, 2016
